In this lecture we will see how we can assign comments to our blog post and the other way around.
Assigning blog posts to existing comment so we'll run PJ artisan thinkers to do that as usual.
Later I will of course also show you how to implement this functionality inside the blog post application.
So first let's see what blog posts do we have so we can use blog posts all to fetch all the blog posts
from the database.
I happen to have only one currently.
If you do not have an ID just go ahead and add them.
Maybe even using the application UI so let's assign this blog post to the BP variable so it has to.
So let's fetch it using Find and now two assigned comments will create a new comment and since comment
has the content property which is required because we haven't made it optional using the new label now
we have to assign something.
Maybe our first comment
and now we can easily save it by using the comments method and it will return an object which has a
metal save.
And now we can save a comment to a blog post and now we can see that the comment was saved.
Let's check the database to make sure that it is actually there.
Refresh the comments table and you will see that there is a first comment with that blog post I.D. too.
So let's go ahead and create another comment so we'll create a new object assigned some other content
to it like second comment.
And now we can associate it with the blog post using Comment blog posts relation method associate
BP.
That's the that's our blog post model that we have already fetched and call save.
Now let's see if this comment is inside the table so we can use comment.
All static method to fetch all the comments and you can see there are two and they are both assigned
to the blog post with their I.D. too.
If we will check that inside the database you can see that it is actually there.
Now of course there is another way to assign comments.
So let's create a third one new comment and you can assign that content like first comment.
And also we can directly access the blog post I.D. because it's our normal column on this model and
set it to something which would be the idea of an existing blog post model
and now saved a comment.
And let's check the database table
and you can see it out there is the first comment.
And it has the I.D. of two exactly how we saved it and let's clear the screen and you do not always
have to save this comments one by one or those related models.
You can also save many at once.
So let's see how we can do that.
Let's create a new comment
set the content to anything could be just one letter.
And now let's create another comment and also set the content maybe to be the content is be OK.
Now we have our BP the blog post the original with the idea too.
And now it has their comments.
And this also has other than the save method it has save many.
And inside the save menu we have to pass an array of all the objects that we would like to store.
So in our case this would be comment comments to Carlos Del array apparently I forgot to add the contents
to the proper variables so I ordered it twice to the comments.
So it has to be comments to content maybe see.
And now BP comments.
So that's the relation method which will return the object save many and inside it comment and comment.
To close the array and safe again.
And you can see that two comments were saved and there are both assigned to the blog post with the I.D.
one.
Now let us also verify inside the database that they are there.
So this is the simplest way we can assign those relations to each other in the next one.
I will also show you the simple ways to retrieve those relationships.
Of course there are much more complicated ways to retrieve and query those relationships but we'll cover
that just after I will show you the free basic relationships and of course the next one would be the
many to many relationship.
And after that we'll go to the more complicated queries.